# Machine Learning Problems with MATLAB

This repository contains MATLAB code solutions for two machine learning problems:

## Problem 1: k-Nearest Neighbor Method for Class Conditional Density Estimation and Classification

In this problem, we use the k-nearest neighbor method to estimate the class conditional density functions \( p(x|\omega1) \) and \( p(x|\omega2) \) for given sample vectors. The sample vectors for class \( \omega1 \) are in the dataset "hw3_2_1", and for class \( \omega2 \) are in "hw3_2_2".

### Steps Taken:
1. Estimate class conditional density functions using the k-nearest neighbor method.
2. Plot the results using the `mesh` function in MATLAB.
3. Classify a specific vector \( x = [1, -2]^T \) based on the density estimation with \( k = 10 \).

## Problem 2: Data Visualization and Batch Perceptron Method

In this problem, we work with the datasets "hw4_2_1" and "hw4_2_2" from the file "hw4.mat". These datasets represent samples from class \( \omega1 \) and class \( \omega2 \) respectively, with each sample vector being 2-D.

### Steps Taken:
1. Plot the 2-D dataset to visualize the samples.
2. Assume a projection function \( j \) and plot the augmented vectors in 3-D using the `plot3` function.
3. Use the Batch Perceptron method to find the weight vector in the generalized linear discriminant function.

## Files in the Repository:

- 'problem1.m': MATLAB script for Problem 1.
- 'problem2.m': MATLAB script for Problem 2.
- 'README.md': This file providing an overview of the project.

## How to Use:

1. Clone the repository to your local machine using:
   
   git clone 'https://github.com/Prayash-Das/MATLAB-Machine-Learning-Projects.git'
   
2. Open MATLAB and run the scripts problem1.m and problem2.m to execute the code for each problem.
3. Make sure you have the MATLAB environment set up with necessary toolboxes.
4. Explore the results generated by the scripts and understand the solutions to the machine learning problems.

## Notes:

- Ensure that you have MATLAB installed and configured properly to run the scripts.
- Refer to the comments within each MATLAB script for detailed explanations of the code and algorithms used.
- Modify the scripts as needed for experimentation or further analysis.
